First thing I would want to do when planning a room makeover is to think about what I want to change and why (do I want to just add some space and lightning or something bigger like totally change of use, for example from bedroom to home office). This would help my to decide how big the renovation will be (will it be just a cosmetic remodel or general makeover involving things like plumbing, flooring or some electrical work).
After planning general technical aspects of the renovation, I would think about how the room should look like. I would create a mood board that consist of ideas I fancy. I would try to find photos that capture the general style of the interior to keep my on track with planning a shopping list.
After finding the purpose of the renovation, I would take measurements of the room. I would measure overall length of the wall and also length of the windows and doors as well as specific location of those. With that I would make a list of items I need to buy (for example: furniture, wall paint, decorations, items I want to fix or repair).
With possession of a mood board, shopping list and measurements of the room I would be able to find all the things I need for a makeover. I would view through offers in different shops to choose everything I need and fits to prepared mood board. That would also help me to estimate how much the makeover would cost me and make if need be adjustment if my budget is too low or if I have some margin left.
When I have everything selected specifically, I would draw a room plan. I would make sure everything is measured right and fits to each other. I will especially pay attention to dimensions of furnitures that they are appropriate for my room. That would be the last step of planning the makeover on paper.
When I have everything planned and drawn on paper, I would start with removing everything what's in the room. What I mean is furniture, carpet, curtains, decorations and plants. If there would be a need to remove electric sockets or securing electric cables, I would find and ask someone competent to help me with that. Then I would start with sealing holes in walls, plastering and replacement of the electrical installation or seals if needed. If those kinds of fixes are done, I would start painting the walls. For that I would need to buy wall paint, brushes and painting roll and dishes.
After walls being painted, I can take care of the floor. If some floor tiles are damaged I would replace them and at the end I would perform some care treatment like floor polishing.
Walls and floor are done, so that means I can go shopping. I would buy things I put on a shopping list in advance.
When all bought items would be transported to the destination, I would have to take care of assembling furniture and other stuff like lighting. After that, all things would have to be placed on pre-scheduled places. When the heaviest and biggest items are spread out, it's time to take care of the small things that are left, like deploying plants and decorations in place and putting the rug on the floor. Last thing I would do would be filling with suitable items bookshelves, desk, wardrobes and chests of drawers.